{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl ;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs36\lang9                    Product Requirement Document\ul\par
\par
Temperature finding based on location or Pin code\par
\par
Purpose of the product:\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0 The purpose of this product is to provide a user-friendly and efficient solution for finding the temperature of a specific location based on either its pincode or geographic coordinates. This tool will cater to a wide range of users, including travelers, weather enthusiasts, and anyone seeking up-to-date temperature information for a specific area.\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b Actors/Users:\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\b User\b0 : The end-user who interacts with the application to request temperature information for a particular location using either the pincode or geographic coordinates.\par
\b Location Data Provider\b0 : The service or API that provides location data, including temperature, based on the user's query.\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b Features:\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
 1. \b Location Input\par
\b0 The user can enter either a pincode or geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) as the location query.\par
The system should validate the input to ensure it is a valid pincode or valid geographic coordinates.\par
2. \b Location Data Retrieval\par
\b0 The system should interact with the designated location data provider to fetch temperature information for the given location.\par
If the input is a pincode, the system will use geocoding services to obtain the corresponding geographic coordinates.\par
If the input is geographic coordinates, the system will directly use them to fetch temperature data.\par
3. \b Temperature Display\par
\b0 Once the location data is retrieved successfully, the system will display the current temperature in Celsius or Fahrenheit, along with a timestamp indicating the time of the temperature reading.\par
The system will also provide additional weather-related information, such as weather conditions (e.g., sunny, rainy, cloudy) and humidity levels.\par
4. \b Unit Conversion\par
\b0 The user should have the option to choose between Celsius and Fahrenheit for temperature display.\par
The system will perform the necessary unit conversion based on the user's preference.\par
5\b . Error Handling\par
\b0 The system should handle errors gracefully in case of invalid input, network issues, or unavailability of temperature data for a specific location.\par
Appropriate error messages should be displayed to the user, guiding them on how to correct the input or try again later.\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b Dependencies:\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
1. \b Location Data Provider API\par
\b0 The system will rely on a third-party location data provider or weather API to fetch temperature data based on the given location query.\par
The availability and response time of this API will directly impact the system's performance.\par
2. \b Geocoding Service (if using pincode)\par
\b0 If the user provides a pincode as input, the system will require access to a geocoding service to convert the pincode to geographic coordinates for fetching temperature data.\par
3. \b Internet Connectivity\b0\par
The system will require a stable internet connection to interact with the location data provider API and retrieve temperature information.\par
4. \b User Interface\par
\b0 The product will need a user interface (UI) through which the user can interact with the system, enter the location query, and view the temperature information.\par
\par
\cf1\b Use Cases:\par
1.\cf0\b0 User Retrieves Current Temperature\par
   Actor: User\par
  \b Description\b0 : The user wants to know the current   temperature at a specific location. They enter either the pin code or geographic coordinates of the location in the application.\par
\b System Response\b0 : The application retrieves the current temperature for the specified location and displays it to the user in Celsius or Fahrenheit along with additional weather information.\par
2\b .User Chooses Temperature Unit\b0\par
\b Actor\b0 : User\par
\b Description\b0 : After receiving the temperature information, the user decides to view the temperature in a different unit (Celsius or Fahrenheit).\par
\b System Response\b0 : The application allows the user to switch between Celsius and Fahrenheit units and updates the temperature display accordingly.\par
3\b .User Views Weather Conditions\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user wants to know more than just the temperature. They want to see additional weather conditions such as whether it's sunny, rainy, cloudy, etc.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application provides additional weather-related information, including weather conditions and humidity levels, based on the location data.\par
\fs36 4.\b Invalid Location Input\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user enters an invalid pin code or geographic coordinates in the application\fs36 .\par
System Response: \fs32 The application detects the invalid input and displays an error message guiding the user to provide a valid pin code or geographic coordinates\fs36 .\par
5.\b Location Data Unavailable\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user enters a valid location, but the system cannot retrieve temperature data for that location due to unavailability in the data provider.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application displays an error message indicating that temperature data for the specified location is currently unavailable and suggests trying again later.\par
\fs36 6.\b User Retrieves Weather Forecast\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user is planning a trip and wants to know the weather forecast for a specific location in the future.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application provides a weather forecast for the selected location, showing temperature trends and predicted weather conditions for the upcoming days.\par
\fs36 7.\b Historical Temperature Data\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user wants to explore past weather patterns or compare historical temperature data for a particular location.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application offers access to historical temperature data, allowing the user to view temperature trends over a specified period.\par
\fs36 8.\b Mobile Access:\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user accesses the application on their mobile device while on the go.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application is optimized for mobile devices, providing a user-friendly experience and ensuring seamless access to temperature information\fs36 .\par
9.\b Integration with Maps\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description: \fs32 The user wants to visualize the location and its temperature on a map.\par
\fs36 System Response: \fs32 The application integrates with maps, allowing the user to see the location on a map and get temperature information with a map-based interface.\par
\fs36 10.\b Privacy and Data Security\par
\b0 Actor: User\par
Description:   \fs32 The user is concerned about their data privacy and security while using the application\fs36 .\par
System Response:    \fs32 The application ensures data security and complies with relevant data protection regulations, giving the user confidence in using the service.\par
\fs36\par
\b Additional Considerations:\par
\b0 The product should be mobile-friendly to cater to users accessing the service from their smartphones and tablets.\par
To enhance user experience, the system can offer additional features such as weather forecast, historical temperature data, and integration with maps for visual representation.\par
Privacy and data security should be ensured, and the product should comply with relevant data protection regulations.\cf1\ul\b\par
\cf0\ulnone\b0\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\cf1\ul\b\par
}
 